# ES-NMGCDA
## ES-NMGCDA: Optimization algorithm for state analysis of circRNA-disease association prediction

We proposes a computational model for circRNA-disease association prediction based on evolutionary computation, named ES-NMGCDA. The method constructs multi-source similarity networks of circRNAs and diseases, integrates and optimizes the networks using a state analysis optimization algorithm, and employs a causal forest classifier to predict circRNA-disease associations.


## Description 
* NOTE: Please ensure you have MATLAB installed to run this code. Any recent version should work.

* The “Classification” folder contains the code for the classifiers used by ES-NMGCDA.
* The "DataSet” folder contains the data sets used by ES-NMGCDA.
* The “Others” folder contains the code for some of the functions used to run the program.
* The “Result” folder contains some data results generated by ES-NMGCDA.
* The “step1_SimilarityMeasurement” folder contains the data extraction methods, including GES, NMF, and other methods.
* The “step2_FeatureFusion” folder contains the methods for feature fusion, including ES fusion and IS fusion method.
* The “step3_CD2scanner.m” file is used to construct the sample set.
* The “step4_construction.m” file is used to construct the sample set too.
* The “step5_main.m” file is used to sample prediction.
* The “step6_casestudy.m” file is the casestudy code.


The ES-NMGCDA Project has been run successfully on Operating systems: 
* macOS Sonoma 14.1.2
* Ubuntu 18.04.6 LTS
* Windows 10

## How to use `ES-NMGCDA`
You can run the .m files for steps 1-6 file in order on matlab.

# Issues
We warmly welcome all feedback, bug reports, and suggestions! When raising issues, please ensure they include a detailed and reproducible example for easier troubleshooting.






